command-line-options.md, before:

# Command Line Option Reference

 * [Synopsis](#synopsis)
 * [Process Control](#process-control-options)
 * [Operating Modes](#operating-mode-options)
 * [Loader Options](#loader-options)
 * [Maintenance Actions](#maintenance-options)
 * [Behavioral Options](#behavioral-options)
 * [Reconstitute Options](#reconstitute-options)

To obtain the most current usage summary: `/opt/circonus/sbin/snowthd -h`

## Synopsis

```
process control flags:
        -k start                start the process (default)
        -k stop                 stop a running process
        -k status               report the status via exit code

mutually exclusive flags:
        -e                      boot this node ephemerally (compute node)
        -i <uuid>               identify this node

standalone loader flags for use with -i
        -m                      merge text reconstitution files
        -H                      merge hist reconstitution files

standalone maintenance flags for use with -i
        -r text/metrics         repair text inventory
        -r text/changelog       repair text datastore
        -r hist/metrics         repair hist inventory
        -r hist/<period>        repair hist rollups
        -j                      only write journal data to otther nodes

optional behavior flags:
        -c <file>               load config from <file> (full path)
                                        default: /opt/circonus/etc/snowth.conf
        -d                      debugging
        -D                      foreground operations (don't daemonize)
        -u <user>               run as <user>
        -g <group>              run as <group>
        -t <path>               chroot to <path>
        -l <logname>            enable <logname>
        -L <logname>            disable <logname>

reconstitute parameters:
        -B                      Reconstitute mode
        -T <topo_hash>          Reconstitute from remote topology
        -O <ip>[:<port>]        Reconstitute from remote host
        -A [<type>[,<type>]]    Reconstitute type
                                Acceptable values: nnt,text,hist,raw,metrics
                                All if omitted
        -E                      Reset mode - remove existing state files, start
from beginning

this usage message:
        -h                      usage
```

## Process Control Options

 * `-k <start|stop|status>`

`status` will exit `0` if the process is running, non-zero otherwise.

## Operating Mode Options

These options are mutually exclusive of one another. One or the other is
required.

 * `-i <uuid>`

Identify this node with `<uuid>`.  This is the normal mode of operation.

 * `-e`

Boot the node in ephemeral mode. Ephemeral nodes are read-only participants in
the cluster. They do not appear in the cluster topology, and do not accept
incoming metrics, but may be used to read metric data from other nodes and
perform intensive computation that would add unreasonable load to the main
nodes.

## Loader Options

**DEPRECATED**

These options imply foreground operation and perform a specific task, then
exit. They are only valid in identified mode (`-i`).

 * `-m` 

Merge text reconstitution files.

 * `-H`

Merge histogram reconstitution files. 

These options were used in a previous version of the reconstitute process and
are no longer strictly required. They may be removed in a future version.

## Maintenance Options

These options imply foreground operation and perform a specific task, then
exit. They are only valid in identified mode (`-i`).

 * `-r text/metrics`

Repair text inventory.

 * `-r text/changelog`

Repair text datastore.

 * `-r hist/metrics`

Repair histogram inventory.

 * `-r hist/rollups`

Repair histogram rollups.

 * `-j`

Journal-drain mode. Does not start a network listener, so this node will appear
"down" to its peers, but will send any pending journal data to them.  This is
useful if you are planning to retire and replace a cluster node, and want to
ensure that it has sent all outgoing journal data without accepting any new
input.

## Behavioral Options

These determine optional behavior, and are not required.

 * `-c <file>`

Load configuration from `<file>`. Must be a full path. If not specified, the
default path is `/opt/circonus/etc/snowth.conf`.

 * `-d`

Activate additional debug logging. Use with caution; can generate a large
volume of logs.

 * `-D`

Stay in the foreground, rather than daemonizing. If specified once, run as a
single process with no watchdog. If specified twice, run as a parent/child
pair, with the parent (watchdog) process in the foreground.

See the [libmtev
documentation](http://circonus-labs.github.io/libmtev/development/mtev_main.html#foreground)
for details on foreground operation.

 * `-u <user>`

Drop privileges after start and run as this user.

 * `-g <group>`

Drop privileges after start and run as this group.

 * `-t <path>`

Chroot to `<path>` for operation. Ensure that log file locations may be
accessed within the chrooted environment.

 * `-l <logname>`

Enable `<logname>`, even if it is disabled in the configuration file. The
specified log stream must exist.

 * `-L <logname>`

Disable `<logname>`, even if it is enabled in the configuration file. The
specified log stream must exist.

## Reconstitute Options

These operations are used when [rebuilding a node](/rebuilding-nodes.md).

 * `-B`

Enable reconstitute mode.

 * `-T <topo_hash>`

Reconstitute from this remote/foreign topology. Used when creating a new cluster
from an existing one.

 * `-O <ip>[:<port>]`

Reconstitute from this remote/foreign node. Used when creating a new cluster
from an existing one.

 * `-A [<type>]`

Reconstitute one or more types of data (comma-separated), or all if no type is
specified.  Acceptable values are `nnt,text,hist,raw,metrics`.

 * `-E`

Reset reconstitute progress and start from the beginning.

Commit message:

Clarify the usage of histogram rollup repair
Fix a typo in the -j option.

command-line-options.md, after:

# Command Line Option Reference

 * [Synopsis](#synopsis)
 * [Process Control](#process-control-options)
 * [Operating Modes](#operating-mode-options)
 * [Loader Options](#loader-options)
 * [Maintenance Actions](#maintenance-options)
 * [Behavioral Options](#behavioral-options)
 * [Reconstitute Options](#reconstitute-options)

To obtain the most current usage summary: `/opt/circonus/sbin/snowthd -h`

## Synopsis

```
process control flags:
        -k start                start the process (default)
        -k stop                 stop a running process
        -k status               report the status via exit code

mutually exclusive flags:
        -e                      boot this node ephemerally (compute node)
        -i <uuid>               identify this node

standalone loader flags for use with -i
        -m                      merge text reconstitution files
        -H                      merge hist reconstitution files

standalone maintenance flags for use with -i
        -r text/metrics         repair text inventory
        -r text/changelog       repair text datastore
        -r hist/metrics         repair hist inventory
        -r hist/<period>        repair hist rollup for configured <period>
        -j                      only write journal data to other nodes

optional behavior flags:
        -c <file>               load config from <file> (full path)
                                        default: /opt/circonus/etc/snowth.conf
        -d                      debugging
        -D                      foreground operations (don't daemonize)
        -u <user>               run as <user>
        -g <group>              run as <group>
        -t <path>               chroot to <path>
        -l <logname>            enable <logname>
        -L <logname>            disable <logname>

reconstitute parameters:
        -B                      Reconstitute mode
        -T <topo_hash>          Reconstitute from remote topology
        -O <ip>[:<port>]        Reconstitute from remote host
        -A [<type>[,<type>]]    Reconstitute type
                                Acceptable values: nnt,text,hist,raw,metrics
                                All if omitted
        -E                      Reset mode - remove existing state files, start
from beginning

this usage message:
        -h                      usage
```

## Process Control Options

 * `-k <start|stop|status>`

`status` will exit `0` if the process is running, non-zero otherwise.

## Operating Mode Options

These options are mutually exclusive of one another. One or the other is
required.

 * `-i <uuid>`

Identify this node with `<uuid>`.  This is the normal mode of operation.

 * `-e`

Boot the node in ephemeral mode. Ephemeral nodes are read-only participants in
the cluster. They do not appear in the cluster topology, and do not accept
incoming metrics, but may be used to read metric data from other nodes and
perform intensive computation that would add unreasonable load to the main
nodes.

## Loader Options

**DEPRECATED**

These options imply foreground operation and perform a specific task, then
exit. They are only valid in identified mode (`-i`).

 * `-m` 

Merge text reconstitution files.

 * `-H`

Merge histogram reconstitution files. 

These options were used in a previous version of the reconstitute process and
are no longer strictly required. They may be removed in a future version.

## Maintenance Options

These options imply foreground operation and perform a specific task, then
exit. They are only valid in identified mode (`-i`).

 * `-r text/metrics`

Repair text inventory.

 * `-r text/changelog`

Repair text datastore.

 * `-r hist/metrics`

Repair histogram inventory.

 * `-r hist/<rollup>`

Repair a histogram rollup. The value is one of the existing histogram rollup
periods from the config file, e.g., `hist/60` to repair the 1-minute histogram
rollups.

 * `-j`

Journal-drain mode. Does not start a network listener, so this node will appear
"down" to its peers, but will send any pending journal data to them.  This is
useful if you are planning to retire and replace a cluster node, and want to
ensure that it has sent all outgoing journal data without accepting any new
input.

## Behavioral Options

These determine optional behavior, and are not required.

 * `-c <file>`

Load configuration from `<file>`. Must be a full path. If not specified, the
default path is `/opt/circonus/etc/snowth.conf`.

 * `-d`

Activate additional debug logging. Use with caution; can generate a large
volume of logs.

 * `-D`

Stay in the foreground, rather than daemonizing. If specified once, run as a
single process with no watchdog. If specified twice, run as a parent/child
pair, with the parent (watchdog) process in the foreground.

See the [libmtev
documentation](http://circonus-labs.github.io/libmtev/development/mtev_main.html#foreground)
for details on foreground operation.

 * `-u <user>`

Drop privileges after start and run as this user.

 * `-g <group>`

Drop privileges after start and run as this group.

 * `-t <path>`

Chroot to `<path>` for operation. Ensure that log file locations may be
accessed within the chrooted environment.

 * `-l <logname>`

Enable `<logname>`, even if it is disabled in the configuration file. The
specified log stream must exist.

 * `-L <logname>`

Disable `<logname>`, even if it is enabled in the configuration file. The
specified log stream must exist.

## Reconstitute Options

These operations are used when [rebuilding a node](/rebuilding-nodes.md).

 * `-B`

Enable reconstitute mode.

 * `-T <topo_hash>`

Reconstitute from this remote/foreign topology. Used when creating a new cluster
from an existing one.

 * `-O <ip>[:<port>]`

Reconstitute from this remote/foreign node. Used when creating a new cluster
from an existing one.

 * `-A [<type>]`

Reconstitute one or more types of data (comma-separated), or all if no type is
specified.  Acceptable values are `nnt,text,hist,raw,metrics`.

 * `-E`

Reset reconstitute progress and start from the beginning.
