rebuilding-nodes.md, before:

# Rebuilding IRONdb Nodes

If an IRONdb node or its data is damaged or lost, its data may be rebuilt
from replicas elsewhere in the cluster. This process is known as
"reconstituting" a node.

## Prerequisites

Reconstitution requires that at least one replica of every metric stream stored
on the reconstituting node be available. A reconstitute operation cannot
complete if more than `W-1` nodes are unavailable, including the node being
reconstituted (`W` is the number of `write_copies` configured for the current
topology.)

For example, given a cluster of 10 nodes (`N=10`) with 3 write copies (`W=3`),
a node may be reconstituted if at least `N-(W-1)`, or 8, other nodes are
available and healthy.

As this can be a long-running procedure, a terminal multiplexer such as `tmux`
or `screen` is recommended to avoid interruption.

## Reconstitute Procedure

1. Log into the IRONdb node you wish to reconstitute as `root` or a privileged
user. Make sure the IRONdb package is [up to date](installation.md#updating).
If the entire old node was replaced (e.g., due to a hardware failure), then you
should repeat [initial installation](installation.md#installation-steps) and
then [disable the service](operations.md#service-management).
  1. If reconstituting within the full on-premise, Circonus Inside product,
package updating has been handled automatically by the installer. No manual
package installation is required. Please refer to the [Circonus Inside
Operations
Manual](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/operation/ReconstitutingaSnowthnode.html)
for details on how this process differs for Circonus Inside.
1. Make note of this node's topology UUID, found in the [imported
topology](installation.md#import-topology). You may need to reference this
configuration on another node if the node to be reconstituted is a fresh
install. The node UUID will be referred to below as `<node_id>`.
1. If the IRONdb service is running, [stop it](operations.md#service-management).
1. Make sure there is no lock file located at `/irondb/logs/snowth.lock`. If
there is, remove it with the following command:
```
rm -f /irondb/logs/snowth.lock
```
1. If you repeated initial installation on this node, you may skip to the next
step. Otherwise, follow this procedure to clean out any incomplete or damaged
data.
 1. Run the following command to find the base ZFS dataset. This will create a
shell variable, `BASE_DATASET`, that will be used in subsequent commands.
```
BASE_DATASET=`zfs list -H -o name /irondb`
```
 1. Destroy the existing data using the following commands:
```
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/data
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/text
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/hist
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/raw_db
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/surrogate_db
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/metric_name_db
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/nntbs
```
 1. Wait for the data to be completely destroyed. To do this, periodically run
the following command and wait until the value for all pools reads "0".
```
zpool get freeing
``` 
 1. Recreate the dataset structure by running the following commands:
```
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/data
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/hist
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/text
zfs create -o logbias=throughput $BASE_DATASET/raw_db
zfs create -o logbias=throughput $BASE_DATASET/surrogate_db
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/metric_name_db
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/nntbs
```
 1. Run the following commands to make the node-id subdirectories:
```
mkdir /irondb/hist/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/text/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/data/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/raw_db/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/surrogate_db/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/metric_name_db/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/nntbs/<node_id>
```
 1. Make sure that all the directories are owned by the `nobody` user by
running the following:
```
chown -R nobody:nobody /irondb/
```
1. Run IRONdb in reconstitute mode using the following command:
```
/opt/circonus/bin/irondb-start -B
```
1. Wait until the reconstitute operation has fetched 100% of its data from
cluster peers. You can access the current percentage done at:
```
<node ip address>:<node port>/stats.json
```
...and looking at the "reconstitute" stats.

NOTE: There may not be messages appearing on the console while this runs. This
is normal. Do not stop the reconstitute.

Current progress will be saved - if the process stops for any reason, everything
should pick back up approximately where it was. 

If the download stops partway for any reason, you may resume it with the same command:
```
/opt/circonus/bin/irondb-start -B 
```

Once the reconstituting node has retrieved all of its data, you will see the
following on the console:
```
Reconstitute Finished!
```

[Start the IRONdb service](operations.md#service-management).

Commit message:

CIRC-4307 Clarify reconstitute process (#77)
Even if the node's hardware didn't fail, there are other circumstances,
such as deleting and recreating the zpool, which necessitate re-running
the installer.

Clean up some nits elsewhere as well.

rebuilding-nodes.md, after:

# Rebuilding IRONdb Nodes

If an IRONdb node or its data is damaged or lost, its data may be rebuilt
from replicas elsewhere in the cluster. This process is known as
"reconstituting" a node.

## Prerequisites

Reconstitution requires that at least one replica of every metric stream stored
on the reconstituting node be available. A reconstitute operation cannot
complete if more than `W-1` nodes are unavailable, including the node being
reconstituted (`W` is the number of `write_copies` configured for the current
topology.)

For example, given a cluster of 10 nodes (`N=10`) with 3 write copies (`W=3`),
a node may be reconstituted if at least `N-(W-1)`, or 8, other nodes are
available and healthy.

As this can be a long-running procedure, a terminal multiplexer such as `tmux`
or `screen` is recommended to avoid interruption.

## Reconstitute Procedure

1. Log into the IRONdb node you wish to reconstitute as `root` or a privileged
user. Make sure the IRONdb package is [up to date](installation.md#updating).
  1. **Note:** If the entire old node was replaced (e.g., due to a hardware failure), or
the ZFS pool has been recreated (due to hardware failure or administrative
action), then you should repeat [initial
installation](installation.md#installation-steps) and then [disable the
service](operations.md#service-management). The installer will not interfere
with an existing `irondb.conf` file but will ensure that all necessary ZFS
datasets and node-id subdirectories have been created.
  1. **Note:** If reconstituting within the full, on-premise, Circonus Inside
product, package updating has been handled automatically by the installer. No
manual package installation is required. Please refer to the [Circonus Inside
Operations
Manual](https://login.circonus.com/resources/docs/operation/ReconstitutingaSnowthnode.html)
for details on how this process differs for Circonus Inside.
1. Make note of this node's topology UUID, found in the [imported
topology](installation.md#import-topology). You may need to reference this
configuration on another node if the node to be reconstituted is a fresh
install. The node UUID will be referred to below as `<node_id>`.
1. If the IRONdb service is running, [stop it](operations.md#service-management).
1. Make sure there is no lock file located at `/irondb/logs/snowth.lock`. If
there is, remove it with the following command:
```
rm -f /irondb/logs/snowth.lock
```
1. If you repeated initial installation on this node, you may skip to the next
step. Otherwise, follow this procedure to clean out any incomplete or damaged
data.
 1. Run the following command to find the base ZFS dataset. This will create a
shell variable, `BASE_DATASET`, that will be used in subsequent commands.
```
BASE_DATASET=$(zfs list -H -o name /irondb)
```
 1. Destroy the existing data using the following commands:
```
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/data
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/text
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/hist
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/raw_db
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/surrogate_db
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/metric_name_db
zfs destroy -r $BASE_DATASET/nntbs
```
 1. Wait for the data to be completely destroyed. To do this, periodically run
the following command and wait until the value for all pools reads "0".
```
zpool get freeing
``` 
 1. Recreate the dataset structure by running the following commands:
```
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/data
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/hist
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/text
zfs create -o logbias=throughput $BASE_DATASET/raw_db
zfs create -o logbias=throughput $BASE_DATASET/surrogate_db
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/metric_name_db
zfs create $BASE_DATASET/nntbs
```
 1. Run the following commands to make the node-id subdirectories:
```
mkdir /irondb/hist/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/text/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/data/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/raw_db/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/surrogate_db/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/metric_name_db/<node_id>
mkdir /irondb/nntbs/<node_id>
```
 1. Make sure that all the directories are owned by the `nobody` user by
running the following:
```
chown -R nobody:nobody /irondb/
```
1. Run IRONdb in reconstitute mode using the following command:
```
/opt/circonus/bin/irondb-start -B
```
1. Wait until the reconstitute operation has fetched 100% of its data from
cluster peers. You can access the current percentage done at:
```
<node ip address>:<node port>/stats.json
```
...and looking at the "reconstitute" stats.

**Note**: There may not be messages appearing on the console while this runs. This
is normal. Do not stop the reconstitute.

Current progress will be saved - if the process stops for any reason,
everything should resume approximately where it was.

If the reconstitute is interrupted for any reason, you may resume it with the
same command:
```
/opt/circonus/bin/irondb-start -B 
```

Once the reconstituting node has retrieved all of its data, you will see the
following on the console:
```
Reconstitute Finished!
```

[Start the IRONdb service](operations.md#service-management).
