zfs-guide.md, before:

# ZFS Setup Guide

In the following guide we will demonstrate a typical IRONdb installation on
Linux, using ZFS.

This guide assumes a server with the following storage configuration:
* One or more OS drives with ext4 on LVM, md, etc., depending on installer
  choices and/or operator preference.
* 12 data drives attached via a SAS or SATA HBA (non-RAID) that will be used
  exclusively for ZFS.

## ZFS Terminology
If you are new to ZFS, there are some basic concepts that you should become
familiar with to best utilize your server hardware with ZFS.

References:
* [OpenZFS Administration](http://open-zfs.org/wiki/System_Administration)
* [ZFS on Linux RHEL setup](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/RHEL-and-CentOS)
* [ZFS: The Last Word in Filesystems](https://wiki.illumos.org/download/attachments/1146951/zfs_last.pdf)
  Old but still largely relevant presentation introducing ZFS, from Sun Microsystems

### Pools
Pools are the basis of ZFS storage. They are constructed out of "virtual
devices" (vdevs), which can be individual disks or groupings of disks that
provide some form of redundancy for writes to the group.

Review the `zpool` man page for details.

### Datasets
Datasets are logical groupings of objects within a pool. They are accessed in
one of two ways: as a POSIX-compliant filesystem, or as a block device. In this
guide we will only be dealing with the filesystem type.

Filesystem datasets are mounted in the standard UNIX hierarchy just as
traditional filesystems are. The difference is that the "device" part of the
mount is a hierarchical name, starting with the pool name, rather than a device
name such as `/dev/sdc1`. The specific mountpoint of a given filesystem is
determined by its `mountpoint` property. See the `zfs` man page for more
information on ZFS dataset properties.

**Please note that IRONdb setup configures all necessary datatset properties.
No pre-configuration is required.**

On Linux, ZFS filesystems are mounted at boot by the `zfs-mount` service.
They are not kept in the traditional `/etc/fstab` file.

## Obtaining ZFS Packages

### RHEL and CentOS
Follow the [RHEL & CentOS](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/RHEL-and-CentOS)
getting-started guide. The kABI-tracking kmod version is the easiest to manage,
as there is nothing to compile, and it is designed to work with the stock EL7
kernels.

Additionally, be sure to run the [systemd
update](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/RHEL-and-CentOS#systemd-update)
after installing the packages. This will ensure that the ZFS pool will be
imported properly on boot.

### Ubuntu
Packages for ZFS are available from the standard Ubuntu repository.
```
apt-get install zfs
```

## Creating a ZFS Pool
IRONdb setup expects a zpool to exist, but will take care of creating all
necessary filesystems and directories.

For best performance with IRONdb, consider using mirror groups. These provide
the highest number of write IOPS, but at a cost of 50% of available raw
storage. Balancing the capacity of individual nodes with the number of nodes in
your IRONdb cluster is something that Circonus Support can help you with.

In our example system we have 12 drives available for our IRONdb pool. We will
configure six 2-way mirror groups, across which writes will be striped. This is
similar to a RAID-10 setup. We will call our pool "data". To simplify the
example command we are using the traditional `sdX` names, but it's recommended
that you use [different identifiers](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/FAQ#selecting-dev-names-when-creating-a-pool)
for your devices that are less susceptible to change and make it easier to
maintain.
```
zpool create data \
    mirror sdc sdd \
    mirror sde sdf \
    mirror sdg sdh \
    mirror sdi sdj \
    mirror sdk sdl \
    mirror sdm sdn
```

Using the `zpool status` command we can see our new pool:
```
  pool: data
 state: ONLINE
  scan: none requested
config:

    NAME        STATE     READ WRITE CKSUM
    data        ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-0  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdc     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdd     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-1  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sde     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdf     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-2  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdg     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdh     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-3  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdi     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdj     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-4  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdk     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdl     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-5  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdm     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdn     ONLINE       0     0     0

errors: No known data errors
```

At this point you may wish to reboot the system to ensure that the pool is
present at startup.

## Proceed to IRONdb Setup
Now that you have created a ZFS pool you may begin the IRONdb
[installation](/installation.md). If you have multiple pools configured and you
want to use a specific pool for IRONdb, you can use the `-z` option to the
setup script.
```
/opt/circonus/bin/setup-irondb (other options) -z data
```

The setup script takes care of creating the `/irondb` mountpoint and all other
necessary filesystems, as well as setting the required properties on those
filesystems. No other administrative action at the ZFS level should be required
at this point.

Commit message:

Mention differences vs. Circonus Inside
Also clean up a couple of details where we do things differently now:
 * Standard ZFS recordsize on all datasets
 * No more `-E` option with reconstitute; resuming is now automatic

Fixes #29

zfs-guide.md, after:

# ZFS Setup Guide

In the following guide we will demonstrate a typical IRONdb installation on
Linux, using ZFS.

This guide assumes a server with the following storage configuration:
* One or more OS drives with ext4 on LVM, md, etc., depending on installer
  choices and/or operator preference.
* 12 data drives attached via a SAS or SATA HBA (non-RAID) that will be used
  exclusively for ZFS.

## ZFS Terminology
If you are new to ZFS, there are some basic concepts that you should become
familiar with to best utilize your server hardware with ZFS.

References:
* [OpenZFS Administration](http://open-zfs.org/wiki/System_Administration)
* [ZFS on Linux RHEL setup](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/RHEL-and-CentOS)
* [ZFS: The Last Word in Filesystems](https://wiki.illumos.org/download/attachments/1146951/zfs_last.pdf)
  Old but still largely relevant presentation introducing ZFS, from Sun Microsystems

### Pools
Pools are the basis of ZFS storage. They are constructed out of "virtual
devices" (vdevs), which can be individual disks or groupings of disks that
provide some form of redundancy for writes to the group.

Review the `zpool` man page for details.

### Datasets
Datasets are logical groupings of objects within a pool. They are accessed in
one of two ways: as a POSIX-compliant filesystem, or as a block device. In this
guide we will only be dealing with the filesystem type.

Filesystem datasets are mounted in the standard UNIX hierarchy just as
traditional filesystems are. The difference is that the "device" part of the
mount is a hierarchical name, starting with the pool name, rather than a device
name such as `/dev/sdc1`. The specific mountpoint of a given filesystem is
determined by its `mountpoint` property. See the `zfs` man page for more
information on ZFS dataset properties.

**Please note that IRONdb setup configures all necessary datatset properties.
No pre-configuration is required.**

On Linux, ZFS filesystems are mounted at boot by the `zfs-mount` service.
They are not kept in the traditional `/etc/fstab` file.

## Obtaining ZFS Packages

### RHEL and CentOS
Follow the [RHEL & CentOS](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/RHEL-and-CentOS)
getting-started guide. The kABI-tracking kmod version is the easiest to manage,
as there is nothing to compile, and it is designed to work with the stock EL7
kernels.

Additionally, be sure to run the [systemd
update](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/RHEL-and-CentOS#systemd-update)
after installing the packages. This will ensure that the ZFS pool will be
imported properly on boot.

### Ubuntu
Packages for ZFS are available from the standard Ubuntu repository.
```
apt-get install zfs
```

## Creating a ZFS Pool
IRONdb setup expects a zpool to exist, but will take care of creating all
necessary filesystems and directories.

For best performance with IRONdb, consider using mirror groups. These provide
the highest number of write IOPS, but at a cost of 50% of available raw
storage. Balancing the capacity of individual nodes with the number of nodes in
your IRONdb cluster is something that Circonus Support can help you with.

In our example system we have 12 drives available for our IRONdb pool. We will
configure six 2-way mirror groups, across which writes will be striped. This is
similar to a RAID-10 setup. We will call our pool "data". To simplify the
example command we are using the traditional `sdX` names, but it's recommended
that you use [different identifiers](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/FAQ#selecting-dev-names-when-creating-a-pool)
for your devices that are less susceptible to change and make it easier to
maintain.
```
zpool create data \
    mirror sdc sdd \
    mirror sde sdf \
    mirror sdg sdh \
    mirror sdi sdj \
    mirror sdk sdl \
    mirror sdm sdn
```

Using the `zpool status` command we can see our new pool:
```
  pool: data
 state: ONLINE
  scan: none requested
config:

    NAME        STATE     READ WRITE CKSUM
    data        ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-0  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdc     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdd     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-1  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sde     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdf     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-2  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdg     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdh     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-3  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdi     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdj     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-4  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdk     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdl     ONLINE       0     0     0
      mirror-5  ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdm     ONLINE       0     0     0
        sdn     ONLINE       0     0     0

errors: No known data errors
```

At this point you may wish to reboot the system to ensure that the pool is
present at startup.

## Proceed to IRONdb Setup

> This step is only required if using the standalone IRONdb product. If you are
> referring to this appendix as an on-premise Circonus Inside user, there is no
> further manual setup required at this point. All IRONdb setup from this point
> is handled by the Circonus Inside installer.

Now that you have created a ZFS pool you may begin the IRONdb
[installation](/installation.md). If you have multiple pools configured and you
want to use a specific pool for IRONdb, you can use the `-z` option to the
setup script.
```
/opt/circonus/bin/setup-irondb (other options) -z data
```

The setup script takes care of creating the `/irondb` mountpoint and all other
necessary filesystems, as well as setting the required properties on those
filesystems. No other administrative action at the ZFS level should be required
at this point.
