api/delete-histogram-check.md, before:

# Deleting Histogram Data for a Check

This API call is for deleting histogram data from the IRONdb cluster for an entire check. It will remove data from the beginning of time up until the time provided by the user for every histogram metric that is part of the given check UUID.

This call will always return an empty array.

## Description

### URI

`/histogram/check/<uuid>`

### Method

DELETE

### Inputs

 * `uuid` The UUID of the check.

### Headers

 * `X-Snowth-Delete-Time: <end>` (required)
   * `end` The end timestamp for the delete operation. All data from before this specified time is deleted. Time is represented in seconds since the epoch.
 * `X-Snowth-Full-Delete: <value>` (optional)
   * `value` Determines whether the delete operation is local to the receiving node (0) or journaled to all other nodes as well (1). The default, if not specified, is 0 (local-only delete).

## Examples

```
curl -X DELETE \
     -H 'X-Snowth-Delete-Time: 1527811200' \
     http://127.0.0.1:8112/histogram/check/6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12
```

In this example:

 * `histogram` : This tells the system that histogram data will be removed.
 * `6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12` : Check UUID
 * `1527811200` : Delete all data for this check before this time

### Output

```
[]
```

Commit message:

Add tag query, nnt check, and full delete documentation

api/delete-histogram-check.md, after:

# Deleting Histogram Data for a Check

This API call is for deleting histogram rollup data from the IRONdb cluster for an entire check. It will remove histogram data from the beginning of time up until the time provided by the user for every histogram metric that is part of the given check UUID.

The default behavior is deletion of data for all rollups, but it is possible also to specify particular rollups in the header given below, which may be used to remove data for specific rollup(s) which are not needed.

This call always returns a JSON object which describes the matching metrics and the actions taken or errors received on the deletion.  For safety, explicit confirmation is required in the headers to actually force the data deletion.  It is highly recommended to perform the deletion API call without confirmation as a first step, in order to review what would actually be deleted (and hopefully avoid accidentally deleting more data than intended).

Deletion is currently only supported on a single node per API call.  To delete data from the entire cluster, issue the same API call to each node.

## Description

### URI

`/histogram/<uuid>`

### Method

DELETE

### Inputs

 * `uuid` The UUID of the check.

### Headers

 * `x-snowth-delete-time: <end>` (required)
   * `end` The end timestamp for the delete operation. All data before this specified time is deleted. Time is represented in seconds since the epoch.
 * `x-snowth-account-id: <account_id>` (required)
   * `account_id` The account to be searched using the wildcard pattern
 * `x-snowth-delete-rollups: <rollups>` (optional, if omitted the default is ALL rollups)
   * `rollups` The rollups that should be included in the deletion operation, separated by commas
 * `x-snowth-confirm-delete: <0 or 1>` (optional, must be present and set to 1 to actually confirm and process the deletion)

## Examples

```
curl -X DELETE \
     -H 'x-snowth-delete-time: 1527811200' \
     -H 'x-snowth-account-id: 1234' \
     -H 'x-snowth-confirm-delete: 1' \
     http://127.0.0.1:8112/histogram/6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12
```

In this example:

 * `histogram` : This tells the system that histogram data will be removed.
 * `6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12` : Check UUID
 * `1527811200` : Delete all data for this check before this time

### Output

```
[ {"metric_name":"multiple_example_cpuutil_server1","delete_result":"not local","payload":""},
  {"metric_name":"multiple_example_cpuutil_server2","delete_result":"deleted","payload":""},
  ...
]
```
