api/read-text.md, before:

# Retrieving Text Data

This API call is for retrieving text data from the Snowth cluster. It will return an array with all the timestamps from the time given, along with the attendant data.

Data will be returned in an array of tuples. Each tuple will contain a timestamp that indicates when the text value was received (given in milliseconds since the epoch), as well as the text value itself.

## Description

### URI

`/read/<start>/<end>/<uuid>/<metric>`

### Method

GET

### Inputs

 * `start` : The start time from which to pull data, represented in seconds
   since the epoch. This value is inclusive (data for the start time given will
   be pulled).
 * `end` : The end time from which to pull data, represented in seconds since
   the epoch. This value is exclusive (data up to, but not including, the given
   end time will be pulled).
 * `uuid` : The UUID of the check to which the metric belongs.
 * `metric` : The name of the metric for which to pull data.

## Examples

```
curl http://127.0.0.1:8112/read/1380000000/1380000600/6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12/text_example
```

In this example:

 * `read` : This is the command to read data from the server.
 * `1380000000` : This is the Start Time (September 24, 2013, 05:20:00 GMT).
 * `1380000600` : This is the End Time (September 24, 2013, 05:30:00 GMT).
 * `6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12` : This is the Check UUID.
 * `text_example` : This is the Metric Name.

### Example 1 Output

```json
[[1380000000555,"test_value"],[1380000300123,"test_value_2"]]
```

Commit message:

Document text fetching API start conditions

api/read-text.md, after:

# Retrieving Text Data

This API call is for retrieving text data from the Snowth cluster. It will return an array with all the timestamps from the time given, along with the attendant data.

Data will be returned in an array of tuples. Each tuple will contain a timestamp that indicates when the text value was received (given in milliseconds since the epoch), as well as the text value itself.  The database contains all text samples submitted, but the stream is returned, by default, as a front-edge-triggered list.  In otherwords, if the same value is submitted multiple times sequentially, the result set fetched will have only the first occurrence or the "front-edge" of the signal.

## Description

### URI

`/read/<start>/<end>/<uuid>/<metric>`

### Method

GET

### Inputs

 * `start` : The start time from which to pull data, represented in seconds
   since the epoch. This value is inclusive (data for the start time given will
   be pulled).
 * `end` : The end time from which to pull data, represented in seconds since
   the epoch. This value is exclusive (data up to, but not including, the given
   end time will be pulled).
 * `uuid` : The UUID of the check to which the metric belongs.
 * `metric` : The name of the metric for which to pull data.

### Querystring Paramters

 * `get_specific_range=<true|false>` will ensure all timestamps are within the
   start/end boundary and return every sample (not compressing duplicates to their
   starting edge. The default is `false`.
 * `lead=<true|false>` will include the point before `start` if there is no point exactly at `start`
   and such a point exists.  The default is `true`.

## Examples

```
curl http://127.0.0.1:8112/read/1380000000/1380000600/6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12/text_example
```

In this example:

 * `read` : This is the command to read data from the server.
 * `1380000000` : This is the Start Time (September 24, 2013, 05:20:00 GMT).
 * `1380000600` : This is the End Time (September 24, 2013, 05:30:00 GMT).
 * `6f6bdc73-2352-4bdc-ab0e-72f66d0dee12` : This is the Check UUID.
 * `text_example` : This is the Metric Name.

### Example 1 Output

```json
[[1380000000555,"test_value"],[1380000300123,"test_value_2"]]
```
