api/read-rollup.md, before:

# Retrieving Rollup Data

This API call is for retrieving numeric data from the IRONdb cluster with fine
grained control over the `rollup_span`. It will return an array with all the
timestamps from the time given, along with the attendant data.

Data will be returned in an array of tuples. Each tuple will contain a
timestamp and the value that was requested. If "all" data is requested, the
value returned is a hash with the name of each value and the value itself.

## Description

### URI

`/rollup/<uuid>/<metric_name>?start_ts=<start>&end_ts=<end>&rollup_span=<milliseconds>&get_engine=(dispatch|nnt|recalc)&type=<see below>`

### Method

GET

### Inputs

 * `metric`      : The name of the metric for which to pull data (url encoded).
 * `uuid`        : The UUID of the check to which the metric belongs.
 * `start_ts`    : The start time from which to pull data, represented in seconds.milliseconds since the unix epoch.
 * `end_ts`      : The end time up to which data is pulled, represented in seconds.milliseconds since the unix epoch.
 * `rollup_span` : The granularity of the rollup with a units suffix (`s` for seconds, `ms` for milliseconds.  See example below)
 * `get_engine`  :
   * `dispatch` means - read first from NNT and then fill in with recalculated raw data.
   * `nnt` means - behave like the [read](/api-old/read-nnt.md) endpoint, i.e. only read already rolled up data.
   * `recalc` means - read raw data and generate rollups on the fly.
 * `type`        : The type of data for which to pull results. Possible values for this input are as follows:
   * `count`   : The number of data points received for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `average` : The average value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive`  : The derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter` : The counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `average_stddev`   : The standard deviation of the average value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive\_stddev`   : The standard deviation of the derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter\_stddev`  : The standard deviation of the counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive2`  : The second-order derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter2` : The second-order counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive2_stddev`   : The standard deviation of the second-order derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter2\_stddev` : The standard deviation of the second-order counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `all`     : All of the above data.
  
If `type` is omitted, the **average** is returned for each period.

> A note on the `start_ts` and `end_ts` parameters:

The format is `<seconds since epoch>.<milliseconds>`.  In terms of printf, it
is `%lu.%03lu`, i.e., `1516820826.120`.  **While this might look like a
float,** it is, in fact, a strict textual format that requires exactly three
digits after the decimal point. These must always be included, even if they are
`000`.

For example, 12345.6 does **not** mean 12345 seconds and 600 milliseconds; it
is an illegal format.  The `<milliseconds>` portion of the timestamp must
always be 3 digits to represent values from 000 to 999.

## Examples

```
curl http://127.0.0.1:8112/rollup/fc85e0ab-f568-45e6-86ee-d7443be8277d/online?start_ts=1529509020.000&end_ts=1529509200.000&rollup_span=60000ms&type=all&get_engine=recalc
```

In this example:

 * `rollup` : The rollup command
 * `fc85e0ab-f568-45e6-86ee-d7443be8277d` : The UUID of the check
 * `online` : The name of the metric to retrieve data for
 * `start_ts=1529509020.000` : 2018-06-20T15:37:00+00:00 and zero milliseconds
 * `end_ts=1529509200.000` : 2018-06-20T15:40:00+00:00 and zero milliseconds
 * `rollup_span=60000ms` : Rollup at 60000 milliseconds (1 minute)
 * `type=all` : Get all rollup fields
 * `get_engine=recalc` : Recalculate the rollup from the raw database

### Example 1 Output

```json
[
  [
    1529509020,
    {
      "count": 1,
      "value": 0,
      "stddev": 0,
      "derivative": 0,
      "derivative_stddev": 0,
      "counter": 0,
      "counter_stddev": 0,
      "derivative2": 0,
      "derivative2_stddev": 0,
      "counter2": 0,
      "counter2_stddev": 0
    }
  ],
  [
    1529509080,
    {
      "count": 1,
      "value": 0,
      "stddev": 0,
      "derivative": 0,
      "derivative_stddev": 0,
      "counter": 0,
      "counter_stddev": 0,
      "derivative2": 0,
      "derivative2_stddev": 0,
      "counter2": 0,
      "counter2_stddev": 0
    }
  ],
  [
    1529509140,
    {
      "count": 1,
      "value": 0,
      "stddev": 0,
      "derivative": 0,
      "derivative_stddev": 0,
      "counter": 0,
      "counter_stddev": 0,
      "derivative2": 0,
      "derivative2_stddev": 0,
      "counter2": 0,
      "counter2_stddev": 0
    }
  ]
]
```

Timestamps in the returned data will take on the `<seconds>.<milliseconds>`
format if the rollup span requires that resolution.

Commit message:

Legacy headers, and a chapter heading page

api/read-rollup.md, after:

# Retrieving Rollup Data

*This is legacy endpoint.  It is recommended to use the [Fetch](./fetch.md) endpoint for all data reads.*

This API call is for retrieving numeric data from the IRONdb cluster with fine
grained control over the `rollup_span`. It will return an array with all the
timestamps from the time given, along with the attendant data.

Data will be returned in an array of tuples. Each tuple will contain a
timestamp and the value that was requested. If "all" data is requested, the
value returned is a hash with the name of each value and the value itself.

## Description

### URI

`/rollup/<uuid>/<metric_name>?start_ts=<start>&end_ts=<end>&rollup_span=<milliseconds>&get_engine=(dispatch|nnt|recalc)&type=<see below>`

### Method

GET

### Inputs

 * `metric`      : The name of the metric for which to pull data (url encoded).
 * `uuid`        : The UUID of the check to which the metric belongs.
 * `start_ts`    : The start time from which to pull data, represented in seconds.milliseconds since the unix epoch.
 * `end_ts`      : The end time up to which data is pulled, represented in seconds.milliseconds since the unix epoch.
 * `rollup_span` : The granularity of the rollup with a units suffix (`s` for seconds, `ms` for milliseconds.  See example below)
 * `get_engine`  :
   * `dispatch` means - read first from NNT and then fill in with recalculated raw data.
   * `nnt` means - behave like the [read](/api-old/read-nnt.md) endpoint, i.e. only read already rolled up data.
   * `recalc` means - read raw data and generate rollups on the fly.
 * `type`        : The type of data for which to pull results. Possible values for this input are as follows:
   * `count`   : The number of data points received for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `average` : The average value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive`  : The derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter` : The counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `average_stddev`   : The standard deviation of the average value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive\_stddev`   : The standard deviation of the derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter\_stddev`  : The standard deviation of the counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive2`  : The second-order derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter2` : The second-order counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `derive2_stddev`   : The standard deviation of the second-order derivative value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `counter2\_stddev` : The standard deviation of the second-order counter value for the metric over the specified time period.
   * `all`     : All of the above data.
  
If `type` is omitted, the **average** is returned for each period.

> A note on the `start_ts` and `end_ts` parameters:

The format is `<seconds since epoch>.<milliseconds>`.  In terms of printf, it
is `%lu.%03lu`, i.e., `1516820826.120`.  **While this might look like a
float,** it is, in fact, a strict textual format that requires exactly three
digits after the decimal point. These must always be included, even if they are
`000`.

For example, 12345.6 does **not** mean 12345 seconds and 600 milliseconds; it
is an illegal format.  The `<milliseconds>` portion of the timestamp must
always be 3 digits to represent values from 000 to 999.

## Examples

```
curl http://127.0.0.1:8112/rollup/fc85e0ab-f568-45e6-86ee-d7443be8277d/online?start_ts=1529509020.000&end_ts=1529509200.000&rollup_span=60000ms&type=all&get_engine=recalc
```

In this example:

 * `rollup` : The rollup command
 * `fc85e0ab-f568-45e6-86ee-d7443be8277d` : The UUID of the check
 * `online` : The name of the metric to retrieve data for
 * `start_ts=1529509020.000` : 2018-06-20T15:37:00+00:00 and zero milliseconds
 * `end_ts=1529509200.000` : 2018-06-20T15:40:00+00:00 and zero milliseconds
 * `rollup_span=60000ms` : Rollup at 60000 milliseconds (1 minute)
 * `type=all` : Get all rollup fields
 * `get_engine=recalc` : Recalculate the rollup from the raw database

### Example 1 Output

```json
[
  [
    1529509020,
    {
      "count": 1,
      "value": 0,
      "stddev": 0,
      "derivative": 0,
      "derivative_stddev": 0,
      "counter": 0,
      "counter_stddev": 0,
      "derivative2": 0,
      "derivative2_stddev": 0,
      "counter2": 0,
      "counter2_stddev": 0
    }
  ],
  [
    1529509080,
    {
      "count": 1,
      "value": 0,
      "stddev": 0,
      "derivative": 0,
      "derivative_stddev": 0,
      "counter": 0,
      "counter_stddev": 0,
      "derivative2": 0,
      "derivative2_stddev": 0,
      "counter2": 0,
      "counter2_stddev": 0
    }
  ],
  [
    1529509140,
    {
      "count": 1,
      "value": 0,
      "stddev": 0,
      "derivative": 0,
      "derivative_stddev": 0,
      "counter": 0,
      "counter_stddev": 0,
      "derivative2": 0,
      "derivative2_stddev": 0,
      "counter2": 0,
      "counter2_stddev": 0
    }
  ]
]
```

Timestamps in the returned data will take on the `<seconds>.<milliseconds>`
format if the rollup span requires that resolution.
