api/search-tags.md, before:

# Searching tag data

Find metrics using boolean tag search.  Output is a JSON array of objects.

## Description

### URIs

* `/find/<account_id>/tags?query=<query>&activity_start_secs=<start>&activity_end_secs=<end>`
* `/find/<account_id>/tag_cats?query=<query>`
* `/find/<account_id>/tag_vals?query=<query>`

### Method

GET

### Inputs

 * `account_id`          : The account to search
 * `query`               : See below
 * `activity_start_secs` : (optional) The start time from which to pull data, represented in seconds since the unix epoch.
 * `activity_end_secs`   : (optional) The end time up to which data is pulled, represented in seconds since the unix epoch.
  
## Query syntax

See [Tag Support](/tags.md) for more info on tag formats.

A query follows this eBNF syntax:

    query-param = all-of | any-of | not
    all-of = "and(" query-tag-list ")"
    any-of = "or(" query-tag-list ")"
	not = "not(" query-tag-el ")"
    query-tag-list = query-tag-el | query-tag-el "," query-tag-list
    query-tag-el = all-of | any-of | not | tag-category:tag-value | /cat regex/:/val regex/ | glob

`not` may only contain a single expression, whereas `and`/`or` may each contain a list of expressions.
Each expression may be a literal `key:value` to match, a regular expression, or a glob match syntax.

Regular expressions follow the PCRE2 syntax and are of the form:

    /category regex/:/value regex/
    
Note that you can apply regular expressions independently to category or value or both:

    category:/value regex/
    /category regex/:value
    
Glob syntax supports the wildcard "`*`" and can be used as a completer:

    categ*:value
    category:val*
    *:*

The last will match every tag and pull everything for the account.

There are 2 special tags:

* `__name`
* `__check_uuid`

Which do not explicitly appear in metric names but can be used to find metrics
anyway. For example, you could query activity periods for all metrics within a
given `__check_uuid` even if none of those metrics were submitted with tags.

If your query uses an unsupported tag character (see [Tag Support](/tags.md)) you must
enclose the query in base64 notation:

`and(b"...":b"...")`

To pass through the unsupported characters.

See the examples below for more color.


## Query Examples

You have ingested the following metrics:

    foo|ST[region:us-east-1,app:myapp]
    bar|ST[region:us-east-2,app:myapp]
    baz|ST[region:us-west-1,app:myapp]
    quux|ST[region:us-west-2,app:yourapp]
    
To find all of the metrics under `app:myapp` your query would be:

`and(app:myapp)`

To find all of the metrics in `us-east` regardless of sub-region you would do:

`and(region:us-east-*)` in glob syntax or:

`and(region:/us-east-.*/)` in regex syntax.

To find `bar` or `quux` you could either do:

`or(__name:bar,__name:quux)`

or:

`or(and(region:us-east-2,app:,myapp),and(region:us-west-2,app:yourapp))`

## Output

### `/find/174/tags?query=and(__name:foo)`

Return all data about the incoming query.

```json
[
  {
    "uuid": "9aae16cd-4427-4330-8bd8-5c4cd176e67e",
    "check_name": "some name here",
    "metric_name": "foo|ST[app:myapp,region:us-east-1]",
    "category": "reconnoiter",
    "type": "numeric",
    "account_id": 174
  }
]

```

### `/find/174/tag_cats?query=and(__name:foo)`

Return the categories of the incoming query.

```json
[
   "app",
   "region"
]

```

### `/find/174/tag_vals?query=and(__name:foo)`

Return the values of the incoming query.

```json
[
   "myapp",
   "us-east-1"
]

```

Commit message:

Note that regex with base64 must not encode the enclosing slashes

api/search-tags.md, after:

# Searching tag data

Find metrics using boolean tag search.  Output is a JSON array of objects.

## Description

### URIs

* `/find/<account_id>/tags?query=<query>&activity_start_secs=<start>&activity_end_secs=<end>`
* `/find/<account_id>/tag_cats?query=<query>`
* `/find/<account_id>/tag_vals?query=<query>`

### Method

GET

### Inputs

 * `account_id`          : The account to search
 * `query`               : See below
 * `activity_start_secs` : (optional) The start time from which to pull data, represented in seconds since the unix epoch.
 * `activity_end_secs`   : (optional) The end time up to which data is pulled, represented in seconds since the unix epoch.
  
## Query syntax

See [Tag Support](/tags.md) for more info on tag formats.

A query follows this eBNF syntax:

    query-param = all-of | any-of | not
    all-of = "and(" query-tag-list ")"
    any-of = "or(" query-tag-list ")"
	not = "not(" query-tag-el ")"
    query-tag-list = query-tag-el | query-tag-el "," query-tag-list
    query-tag-el = all-of | any-of | not | tag-category:tag-value | /cat regex/:/val regex/ | glob

`not` may only contain a single expression, whereas `and`/`or` may each contain a list of expressions.
Each expression may be a literal `key:value` to match, a regular expression, or a glob match syntax.

Regular expressions follow the PCRE2 syntax and are of the form:

    /category regex/:/value regex/
    
Note that you can apply regular expressions independently to category or value or both:

    category:/value regex/
    /category regex/:value
    
Glob syntax supports the wildcard "`*`" and can be used as a completer:

    categ*:value
    category:val*
    *:*

The last will match every tag and pull everything for the account.

There are 2 special tags:

* `__name`
* `__check_uuid`

Which do not explicitly appear in metric names but can be used to find metrics
anyway. For example, you could query activity periods for all metrics within a
given `__check_uuid` even if none of those metrics were submitted with tags.

If your query uses an unsupported tag character (see [Tag Support](/tags.md)) you must
enclose the query in base64 notation:

`and(b"...":b"...")`

To pass through the unsupported characters. If using regular expression
patterns, the `/ /` do _not_ need to be encoded. To perform a regex match on
`.*foo`, you would use the form `b:/Lipmb28K/`.

See the examples below for more color.


## Query Examples

You have ingested the following metrics:

    foo|ST[region:us-east-1,app:myapp]
    bar|ST[region:us-east-2,app:myapp]
    baz|ST[region:us-west-1,app:myapp]
    quux|ST[region:us-west-2,app:yourapp]
    
To find all of the metrics under `app:myapp` your query would be:

`and(app:myapp)`

To find all of the metrics in `us-east` regardless of sub-region you would do:

`and(region:us-east-*)` in glob syntax or:

`and(region:/us-east-.*/)` in regex syntax.

To find `bar` or `quux` you could either do:

`or(__name:bar,__name:quux)`

or:

`or(and(region:us-east-2,app:,myapp),and(region:us-west-2,app:yourapp))`

## Output

### `/find/174/tags?query=and(__name:foo)`

Return all data about the incoming query.

```json
[
  {
    "uuid": "9aae16cd-4427-4330-8bd8-5c4cd176e67e",
    "check_name": "some name here",
    "metric_name": "foo|ST[app:myapp,region:us-east-1]",
    "category": "reconnoiter",
    "type": "numeric",
    "account_id": 174
  }
]

```

### `/find/174/tag_cats?query=and(__name:foo)`

Return the categories of the incoming query.

```json
[
   "app",
   "region"
]

```

### `/find/174/tag_vals?query=and(__name:foo)`

Return the values of the incoming query.

```json
[
   "myapp",
   "us-east-1"
]

```
